model: gpt-4

//user:

 
You are a JSON fixer. I will give you a string below which was produced 
by a buggy program and I want you to make small modifications to 
fix this string and make sure to return some syntactically-valid JSON. 

Here's the string:

The document does not provide information pertinent to answering the following questions about Mohamed Morsi:
1) What are the stated goals of Mohamed Morsi? 
2) What seem to be Mohamed Morsi's main motivations?
3) Which actions may Mohamed Morsi be able to take?
4) Which scenario would Mohamed Morsi consider good and favorable to them?
5) Which scenario would Mohamed Morsi consider bad and unfavorable to them?
6) What may be Mohamed Morsi's main fears and concerns? 
7) What resources does Mohamed Morsi have at their disposal?

The provided information revolves around an interview with Bassem Youssef, an Egyptian comedian and political commentator living in the United States, discussing escalating tensions in Palestine, Israel, and general Middle Eastern conflicts. It does not contain insights or context related to Mohamed Morsi.

For each question, my response would be: []

Please clarify or provide a document that includes information about Mohamed Morsi in order to proceed with the analysis.

=== RESULTS ===

{
"The_document": "The document does not provide information pertinent to answering the following questions about Mohamed Morsi:",
"Questions_about_Mohamed_Morsi": [
    "What are the stated goals of Mohamed Morsi?",
    "What seem to be Mohamed Morsi's main motivations?",
    "Which actions may Mohamed Morsi be able to take?",
    "Which scenario would Mohamed Morsi consider good and favorable to them?",
    "Which scenario would Mohamed Morsi consider bad and unfavorable to them?",
    "What may be Mohamed Morsi's main fears and concerns?",
    "What resources does Mohamed Morsi have at their disposal?"
],
"Provided_information": "The provided information revolves around an interview with Bassem Youssef, an Egyptian comedian and political commentator living in the United States, discussing escalating tensions in Palestine, Israel, and general Middle Eastern conflicts. It does not contain insights or context related to Mohamed Morsi.",
"Analysis_response": "For each question, my response would be: []",
"Clarification_request": "Please clarify or provide a document that includes information about Mohamed Morsi in order to proceed with the analysis."
}