model: gpt-4

//user:

 I have used the Wikipedia API to extract some description for a page but the description is a bit long: 

``` 
Page name: Hamas
Long description: Hamas (UK:  hə-MASS, US:   hə-MAHSS; Arabic: حماس, romanized: Ḥamās, IPA: [ħaˈmaːs]), an acronym of its official name, the Islamic Resistance Movement (حركة المقاومة الإسلامية Ḥarakat al-Muqāwamah al-ʾIslāmiyyah), is a Sunni Islamist political and military organization   governing the Gaza Strip of the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories. Headquartered in Gaza City, it also has a presence in the West Bank (the larger of the two Palestinian territories), in which its secular rival Fatah exercises control.
In 1987, after the outbreak of the First Intifada against Israel, Hamas was founded by Palestinian imam and activist Ahmed Yassin. It emerged out of his Mujama al-Islamiya, which had been established in Gaza in 1973 as an Islamic charity involved with the Egypt-based Muslim Brotherhood. Hamas became increasingly involved in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict by the late 1990s; it opposed the Israel–PLO Letters of Mutual Recognition as well as the Oslo Accords, which saw Fatah renounce "the use of terrorism and other acts of violence" and recognize Israel in pursuit of a two-state solution. Hamas continued to advocate Palestinian armed resistance, won the 2006 Palestinian legislative election, gaining a majority in the Palestinian Legislative Council, and took control of the Gaza Strip from Fatah following a civil war in 2007. Since then, it has run Gaza as a de facto autocratic and one-party state.While historically seeking an Islamic Palestinian state over the combined territory of Israel, the West Bank, and the Gaza Strip (rejecting the two-state solution), Hamas began negotiating with Israel and the 1967 borders in the agreements it signed with Fatah in 2005, 2006 and 2007.  In 2017, Hamas released a new charter that supported a Palestinian state within the 1967 borders without recognizing Israel. Hamas's repeated offers of a truce (for a period of 10–100 years) based on the 1967 borders are seen by many as being consistent with a two-state solution, while others state that Hamas retains the long-term objective of establishing one state in former Mandatory Palestine. Under the ideological principles of Islamism, Hamas promotes Palestinian nationalism in an Islamic context; it has pursued a policy of jihad (armed struggle) against Israel. It has a social service wing, Dawah, and a military wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades. Since the mid-1990s, Hamas has gained widespread popularity within Palestinian society for its anti-Israeli stance. The group's attacks, including suicide bombings against civilian targets and indiscriminate rocket attacks, have led many countries and academics to designate Hamas a terrorist organization. A 2018 attempt to condemn Hamas for "acts of terror" at the United Nations failed.The Gaza Strip is currently under blockade. Israel and Hamas have fought a number of wars there, including in 2008–09, in 2012 and in 2014. In the 2023 war, Hamas launched "Operation Al-Aqsa Flood" and its fighters broke through the Gaza barrier, attacked Israeli military bases, massacred civilians and took civilian and soldier hostages back to Gaza. The attack has been described as the biggest military setback for Israel since the 1973 Arab–Israeli War. In response, Israel intensified the existing Gaza blockade and began a large-scale aerial bombardment campaign over the territory in preparation for a ground assault, having announced its intention to destroy Hamas. The European Parliament and the US have also called for the elimination of Hamas.


```

Return a more concise description. Aim for a single sentence, roughly 2 or 3 lines. 


=== RESULTS ===

Hamas is a Sunni Islamist political and military organization, founded by Palestinian imam Ahmed Yassin in 1987, that governs the Gaza Strip and advocates for Palestinian armed resistance, while opposing the recognition of Israel and pursuing Palestinian nationalism in an Islamic context.